    What is Spring boot?
Spring is the Spring framework.
Spring Framework is an enterprise java framework that lets you write java applications.
SpringBoot is a bootstrap or a way to quickly create a spring application.

    Official definition of Spring boot
Spring Boot makes it easy to create stand-alone, production-grade Spring based Applications that you can "just run".

    Spring
This is an Application framework that helps you build enterprise java applications.
    Problems with Spring
1)It is a huge framework.
2)Multiple setup steps.
3)Multiple configuration steps.
4)Multiple build and deploy steps.
    Spring Boot
1)Opinionated : It gives you a good starting point.
2)Convention over Configuration.
3)Stand alone: You can just run a spring boot application.
4)Production ready.
    Maven
This lets you declare all the dependencies you need in a single file(pom.xml).

    Creating a Project using spring boot Part 1
-Create a maven project
steps
1)click file, new , project and select maven.
GroupId is like the package name
ArtifactId is like the project name - course-api
name- Java Brains Course Api
-add the <parent> project to convert the maven project to a fully functional spring boot project.
meaning the course_api project is now a child of <Parent>
The <parent> contains spring boots configuration and it automatically adds it to the child i.e our project
2)add required <dependency> inside the <dependencies> tag
3)Create a javaclass that is the starting point(run) of our application
Annotate the javaclass with @SpringBootApplication
create a main method and add this code inside the main method
SpringApplication.run(Classname.class, the main class argument);
4)adding a controller
A controller in spring is a class with the @RestController annotation.
In a controller, you can have methods that map to url request.
and the way to annotate a particular request to a particular method, we use
@RequestMapping and it takes the url as a parameter that it is supposed to map to.
The default method for a @RequestMapping is a GET request.

    Reasons why spring boot decided to have the Embedded Tomcat server
Tomcat server: This is the default Servlet container but can can be changed.
-Convenience
-Servlet container config is now application config(everything is now in one place).
-Standalone application

    Spring MVC controller
This handles our request and returns a view.
This controller matches our url and http method to something(method) that returns a view.

    Resources for our rest api
Topics, Courses, Lessons
    Standard for naming resources
Topics:
GET     /topics         Gets all topics
GET     /topics/id      Get the topic
POST    /topics         Create new topic
PUT     /topics/id      Updates the topic
DELETE  /topics/id      Delete the topic

    How to create a business service
By annotating the service class with @Service
@Autowired is used to tell spring that this variable needs to be injected

When making a post request on postman
go to the header
key             value
content-type application/json

        Creating a Project using spring boot Part 2
-Using Spring Initializr
steps
1) Got to the website - https://start.spring.io
choose Maven
input the necessary details and add dependencies.
click generate to download a zip file

     Creating a Project using spring boot Part 3
-Using spring boot CLI
type "spring boot CLI" on the search engine
The Spring Boot CLI is a command line tool that you can use to bootstrap a new project from start.spring.io or encode a password.
Download and extract the zip file
go to your command line and move to the directory of the extracted
cd \Users\USER\IdeaProjects\spring-boot-cli-4.0.0-bin
and type ls
you will see two executable files
spring and spring.bat
execute spring.bat for windows
-create a groovy file with this command - code app.groovy
This will create a groovy file in your vs code
Then create the controller class
@RestController
class AppCtrl {
    @RequestMapping("/")
    String app() {
    "Hello World"
    }
}
don't need to return cos groovy automatically returns
./spring run app.groovy "ps: this works for old spring boot"

    Creating a Project using spring boot Part 4
 Using the STS(Spring Tool suite) IDE
 steps
1)right click project explorer
2)click on new
3)click spring starter project and fill the necessary details.

    How to customize your spring boot application
1)The easiest way is by using a property file called "application.properties"
you can change the default port in the application.properties
This file is created in the resources folder
    How to know the keys to input in application.properties
 go to spring website and search "Common application properties"

    What is SPRING DATA JPA
Jpa - java persistence Api
This helps you do ORM(Object Relational Mapping) when you are connecting to a database
SQL database = relational database meaning we have tables and keys(primary and foreign) which are relational.
ORM handles the queries and mapping for you
JPA - is a way for you to use the orm
Spring data jpa makes working with orms easier
-To use this , you have to add spring data jpa in dependencies
-To use data jpa, we need to annotate the class we want to save to the database with @Entity
-Spring data jpa framework automatically creates a class that does crud operation, that why we have to implement it in our repository
-The CrudRepository takes in two generic types, which are the Entity and Id type = CrudRepository<EntityName, Id>

    How to generate a jar file and deploy into any servlet container
go to the command line and cd to the project folder
type : mvn clean install if maven is installed globally
or
.\mvnw clean install
This works even if Maven is NOT installed globally, because the wrapper downloads Maven automatically.

then type
java -jar target\course-api-data-jpa-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar

    Spring Boot Actuator
Spring boot can help you monitor your application after deployment
Actuator: This is a dependency you add to monitor your project after deployment.
https://spring.io/guides/gs/actuator-service

TODO
Read on
java8 lamda basics.